[Music]
I've seen some things that I don't I
wouldn't wish on any kid to see so I'm
like it just doesn't seem that scary to
me and if you fail so what you know you
start over you do it again but most
people that that fear of failure is the
thing that I think prevents them from
like really really being successful then
also it's like a lot of other things
that are just difficult to do you know
when you tell people the answer to
success it's a lot of hard stuff you got
to work hard right nobody wants to hear
that everybody wants to shortcut you
know some people understand that they
like they appreciate the progress you
know if you tell people right now hey if
you want to lose this many pounds this
is what you got to do there's no short
solution but every time there's still
people out there selling whatever
Herbalife treatment or whatever to try
to get you the quick short route because
people believe that you know what I'm
gonna do it the easy way and if there is
no easy way
[Music]
everybody today's episode is brought to
you by our very own impact Theory
University enjoy the episode hey
everybody welcome to impact Theory
today's guest is a Grammy award-winning
artist known as much for his business
savvy as for his musical talent through
his music he's traveled the globe sold
millions of albums and won countless
awards
he's graced the covers of some of the
most popular magazines on the planet and
been featured by virtually every major
music outlet that exists but that's
about as far from where he started as
you can imagine he grew up in the inner
city of Houston Texas but after his next
door neighbor was shot to death during a
home invasion he realized that somehow
he had to get out and get out he did
through insanely hard work developed
talent and a deep understanding of
marketing he took himself from selling
his mixtapes on the streets to becoming
a multi-platinum best selling artist
signed to one of the largest labels in
the world
his smash hit writing dirty not only
made him an international celebrity it
broke ringtone records and raked in a
Grammy Beatty Award and MTV Award and
more but even all of that success did
not slow him down and since then he's
found tremendous success as a serial
entrepreneur and tech investor he's
launched multiple companies including a
tour bus company a high-end custom auto
body shop and an app company as well as
investing in several mega success
enterprises such as lift maker studios
and several others cementing himself as
a legitimate angel investor with a
jaw-dropping a string of wins so please
help me in welcoming the CEO of
chamilitary entertainment the mixtape
Messiah himself chamillionaire's good
it's funny that the key is to bring
people on who have done amazing stuff
and you have done incredibly surprising
things you're definitely not somebody
who has followed a typical path really
at any point in your life and what do
you attribute that to how'd you not
succumbed to just what everybody was
telling you to do man that's a good
question I think it was really just
watching and observing I felt like I was
a very perceptive person and I used to
see people in my early years have
success and people fail some people took
her out where they started selling drugs
and then I see the result of that and
you know I was one of the people that
was trying to avoid those pitfalls like
even earlier when I started doing music
I saw so many people that got bad deals
or talked about the music industry like
they wouldn't make money so me watching
that so much I was trying to reverse
engineer what I saw and I would sit back
and I was like kind of quiet you know I
feel like I'm a introvert that knows how
to act like a extrovert you know but um
I was super quiet and I used to just
watch and after like observing helped me
a lot you know yeah I actually get that
a lot so I'm equally maybe am diverted
is the right way for me to say it but I
consider myself a pretty deep introvert
who definitely likes to listen before I
speak and I would say that's been a big
part of my success as well is sort of
drink it in and then pick a path and go
that way how do you deal with when
people are telling you you said
something once in an interview that
really hit me and you said you know I'm
now in a space where the people that I
grew up with look at me like being smart
is bad and I've had to learn to play
dumb so how do you simultaneously
navigate it so you're not oblivious to
how people are feeling but not lose who
you are yeah a super tough you got to
balance it because early I used to be
the guy that would always be in
everybody's ear telling them everything
I thought they should do but I realize
that you got a you kind of got to hide
the medicine inside of candy you know
because people will often like you know
repelled from that you know they don't
want to be around that it's like oil and
water you know it feels like you're
you're looking at them and judging them
and you know you think you're better
than them all these different things so
even though it was rooted and one of the
see people actually succeed it actually
came off wrong to people but it was just
in my nature I guess it's from my
parents they used to do it you know and
I feel like I was helping people but
then over time I started to learn
better approach the way to like lead
people to the water but not forced him
to drink it you know and I felt like
that was way more effective but when you
start to grow and you start to you know
see things sometimes you know you lose
people I have friends that never left
the north side of Houston like they've
never seen the other side of the city
and you know somebody could laugh at
that to meet us like man you you don't
you don't have ambition to want to see
that side some of them are like nah I'm
stuck in my ways and they feel like
they're doing it for real reasons they
keeping it real and staying so loyal to
this thing that raised them but it's
like you can still be loyal to your side
of town by knowing what the other side
is about matter of fact you might know
how to help your side even better by
understanding what's happening on the
other side you know but saying this is
somebody sometimes can come off wrong
you have to find out how to communicate
so I've always had that struggle with
how to communicate things that I think
are valuable to people and over time I
feel like wrapping kind of taught me
that you know it taught me how to
articulate my thoughts because you're
seeing a lot of things and you're going
to music to explain it to our audience
of people you have so many different
types of people that you're talking to
you know you got some people that come
from the background if you come from you
got some people that have no idea what
you're talking about everything's
foreign to them but how do you
articulate these things to people and
get everybody to care about it I think
people can focus on your passion they
could tell when you're authentic all
these things you start to hone in on and
get really really good at and then
people will start to listen you know I
used to go to this church on the north
side and there was a guy one time that
um was a pastor and he used to have
braids and he used to come in and he was
to talk to us just like he was one of us
and everybody used to listen to him and
the other guys would come and they'd
have the button ups and nobody listened
to them and I saw that over and over and
I was just like he's a pastor just like
he's a pastor but everybody listens to
him because he felt like he was just one
of us he said play basketball with us
he's into all these things and I always
had these things resting in my hair
because you know you almost feel like
you're not you don't belong a lot of
times in all these different places you
know as an african-american kid in the
city you know you're you're in certain
areas and people are looking at you like
you don't belong you go to church and
they're looking at you like what are you
doing here because you show up with a
hoodie I remember one time they were
having an open gym and I wanted to help
all these kids in the city coming you
know have a place to play basketball so
I spent a lot of time putting up the
basketball goals doing a lot of stuff
and then I went home and get you know
washed up so I could come back and play
basketball and then I come back and they
wouldn't let me in and they're like
excuse me sir this is only for the
members of the church and I'm like I
just spent the whole day putting up the
and I was I was so mad I was like
arguing with this guy that wouldn't stop
me and then that guy with the braids
came in was like no no and let you know
and it's just that little understanding
of welcoming you know I'm saying that I
kind of saw sometimes and when I would
see example of that I would try to be
that and try to be like you know what
I'm gonna be more of like not trying to
judge people and trying to help them be
the best that they can be and it started
transitioning to music and then it
transitioned entrepreneurship and then
it just it just became something that
now it's just like my daily life you
know mm-hmm do that story about people
living their entire life in one half of
the city let alone actually even getting
outside of the city that kind of stuff
freaks me out
it it really it's it is akin to the very
thing that drives me to do impact Theory
which is I really believe that person
just has a false belief a limiting
belief you know something like you said
the he's so prizes loyalty to the city
or to the neighborhood or whatever that
he thinks it's a betrayal to go outside
but if you could just like flip that
switch he could have an entirely
different life like you said even just
going over there to explore to find ways
to make his own side of town better
would be I think a pretty objectively
better life for him and for the people
around him if you had to say like what
are the beliefs or just worldview that
you have that's allowed you to be so
successful I think the number one thing
that keeps people from being successful
is their lack of their fear you know if
something looking stupid of fear of what
it's it's a whole bunch of different
forms you know um sometimes it's about
the people around you and how they'll
perceive you you know because you know
maybe you grew up in a household where
you know things weren't accepted or you
know maybe your parents sitting
accomplish things and then they put that
kind of insecurity on you you know I
used to have a little bit of that you
know I used to write my raps and super
sloppy writing on purpose because my dad
used to come he's to like look and he's
like what is this he's a ball out of a
doorway you know so I started like
writing sloppy on purpose to make it
look like it
schoolwork you know these are the things
that I feel like sometimes it prevents
people from being who they want to be
because all it takes is somebody wanting
to take a step you know and there are
certain things that a lot of people in
this world are sitting there thinking in
their minds and they're just not gonna
do like I used to always try to pull a
lot of people and get like you want you
can do this you can do this but the
people that hear that motivation over
and over again sometimes they take that
step some people just have it in them
early it just starts and they just get
in the muscle memory of just doing
things there's so many things not like
that we were scared about what we're
still here we made it past all these
things I just I guess during my life I
saw so many things that seemed scary and
was able to make them through that it's
just like now the things that seem so
scary to people it's just not as scary
to me you know when I think about
venture capitalists and tech and
entrepreneurship and all these people
from MIT and Stanford you know I was a
little intimidated before I got into it
but I was like if you've seen where I
came from what I've been through like
I've seen some things that I don't I
wouldn't wish on any kid to see so I'm
like it just doesn't seem that scary to
me and if you fail so what you know you
start over you do it again but most
people that that fear of failure is the
thing that I think prevents them from
like really really being successful then
also it's like a lot of other things
that are just difficult to do you know
when you tell people the answer to
success it's a lot of hard stuff you got
to work hard right nobody wants to hear
that everybody wants a shortcut you know
some people understand that they like
they appreciate the progress you know if
you tell people right now hey if you
want to lose this many pounds this is
what you got to do there's no short
solution but every time there's still
people out there selling whatever
Herbalife treatment or whatever to try
to get you the quick short route because
people believe that you know what I'm
gonna do it the easy way and there is no
easy way so when I tell people that is
very blunt it's very straight to it you
have to want to do it but the best way I
try to explain it is like you know I
think somebody was telling me the story
one time I thought it was really great
they're like you know when you're
chiseling on Iraq you know you could
chisel for a long time and you could
choose 100 times 200 times 300 times and
it won't break and then when you get to
five thousand times it finally breaks
but all the work that you did is what
made it break it's not like you just the
last one just broke it you know I mean
it takes that but sometimes people don't
want
start that journey you know they don't
want to get on the mission of like you
know becoming the best that they can be
but I think people like me come from
places where we're motivated by things
that like we're not trying to go back to
sometimes it's a very dark place it's
all kind of things that you're just
trying to put in the back of your head
compartmentalize and just move on but
that thing will kind of push people like
me to kind of be successful and I think
that's why I see so many friends and
people that I know that or that made it
out entrepreneurial I think about all
the successful people you know LeBron
James like you go back to the stories
you'll see you know single parent and
you know so many things that you
wouldn't wish on other people but we're
propelling them to try to succeed and I
feel like everybody needs a little bit
of that push you know it's kind of like
you know a kid falls and bumps his knee
and you know there's one parent that
will kind of coddle the kid and the
other ones like you know what just you
know let them live life a little bit you
know I think everybody needs a little
bit at and used to bump their knee a
little bit and understand that it's not
that bad you know yeah I've heard you
say that sometimes it's good to have
your back against the wall yeah I have a
theory about the inner cities so I've
worked in the inner cities a lot and one
thing I've noticed is that the inner
city breaks almost everyone that it
touches but there are a few people that
manage to be so transformed by it
whether it's out of I never want to go
back whether it's it just hardened them
and they had to be smart to survive
whatever it is there's there's a certain
set of lessons that some people learn
that then propel them so hard so far so
fast out of the inner cities that they
go on to accomplish just truly
extraordinary things
needless to say put your name among
those people so walk us through like
what were some of the key moments that
you experienced as a kid and how did you
end up interpreting it in a way that
pushed you forward even if it was just I
have to get the hell away from this yeah
I feel like there are a lot of moments
where it's just like lightbulb click but
I feel like one thing that I had that a
lot of people don't have is even though
I had a lot of experience seeing the
stuff that happens in our communities I
also had access to the other side you
know I got to see what was possible you
know my property that my father and my
they divorced and when they divorced my
father was living in a separate place of
my mother and my mother was the one that
was living in her you know my dad was
living in a guest middle-class kind of
we're still poor but he was still living
in a middle-class community and I would
go back and forth you know and you know
I had friend up the street who had
everything yet you know the the almost
like the Legos with the big house in the
train going through the you know the
Christmas tree and like all that stuff
nice to look like man I remember one
time I went and I was eating at their
house and I sat down and then you know
after eating I was gonna get up and then
his mother's like wait were you going
like time for dessert and I was just
like what dessert like I never ate
dessert with my parents ever you know so
I was just like what y'all you desert
like cookies and brownies came out I was
just looking like man this is crazy I
want this you know so going back and
then now seeing your mother you know
cereal for dinner you're like no we're
not doing this you know but then other
moments happen where you know the moment
you referenced earlier where a neighbor
got killed I was actually doing some
promoting passing Flyers out of the club
or something and you know we pay like
$100 and something do that I was coming
home and you know we used to live in
this efficiency condominium on the third
floor and I see the door open somebody
sticks his head out he's got a hoodie on
and he closes the door and I already
know what that means so I like tucking
my chain take off my watch for my watch
in and I walked through the door real
quick and there's three guys with hoodie
on and then I like see them I'm like nah
my head like what's up and none of them
say what's up back to me so that's when
I knew I was like all right you know and
I ran all the way up the stairs real
quick and ran into the into the
apartment but I'm like the king of
running silently with like I'm the king
of that like so I did it really fast I
got in there I closed the door and I'm
looking at the people I see I'm just
sitting there my heart's beating beating
really hard and I'm like all right and I
just wait wait and I don't hear anything
so then I just like all right I just go
you know go to sleep and then like in
the morning boom boom boom boom police
officers knock on a door and they open
it up open up halfway sleeping they're
like you know did you hear the gunshots
and I was just like what well gunshots
and I look next door and you know they
got like tape all over and on the walls
I blood and and you know you're looking
like what like was that supposed to be
me
you know what what happened and at that
moment my relationship with the police
kind of just was different too because
I'm thinking like I saw something and
they didn't even care really what I saw
they really just going through the
motions and asking me just cuz they're
supposed to ask they didn't really care
you know and now after they leave we're
still there whoever came and did this is
like still knows and I was just like you
know what this is you know and my mother
she's like the one of these people she's
like the nicest person in the world like
one time I gave my mother my money and
she like went and gave it out to like
kids and she she she's like that you
know she doesn't need it she doesn't
want it she like tries to take her money
and go to Africa and build wells all
kind of stuff like that so she looks at
Humanity in a positive way and always
sees the bright side of it you know so I
was just like now we got to get out of
here you know and I just it was just
something that just lit that you know
the thing I find so interesting about
people that change their circumstance
well you know whatever form that comes
in is inevitably there's a period of
head-down where no one believes you're
gonna be able to make it but that person
they keep putting in the work what did
that look like like what does it
actually take to become I mean dude for
a while you were like the most famous
rapper on the planet so what does it
take to go from absolute obscurity to
you know super stardom is it you have to
get good at the actual flow so that's
going to be part of it the writing side
of it promoting I mean talk to me about
pressing the records like what what
actually is that path what is this sort
of nutshell version of getting good at
something I feel like we spend way more
time in our own minds than we do talking
to other people like you really spend a
lot of time trying to figure it out
there's all these thoughts that come to
you whether it's like you know things
around you people talking to you people
close to you things you see TV whatever
and you're you're bringing in all these
different things trying to figure out
your path in life you know so I think it
starts with having some like real
understanding of what your strengths are
you know like how do you audit that I
feel like it's about being honest you
know a lot of people just aren't honest
with themselves you're telling yourself
this thing but you like there's so many
people that say oh I'm gonna be
entrepreneur I'm gonna do this and if
you really dive down into deep they
don't really believe
it you know and his that's okay you can
unlock that but you have to figure out
how to unlock it there's a conscience
that's sitting right here telling you
this thing and you try to brush it off
you have to be very honest with yourself
and then if you're not that doesn't mean
you can't succeed it means that now
you're very honest and knowing you're
not as good then you can work on getting
it but if you think you're already good
at it you don't work on it so I spent a
lot of time just reflecting on late man
what am I good at like I used to think
like I'm watching the NBA you know I was
unrealistic about it you know you start
to see people that are way bigger way
faster you're not telling yourself the
truth he's just like no I'm going to the
NBA like when did you tell yourself the
truth about that I think I never told
myself the truth until something else
started just knocking on my door you
know it was like I was just I used to be
at school and people would beat on the
table and they would just start rapping
and I was just watch them I was too
scared to like jump in but I knew when I
watched him I was just like man I could
do it ten times better than this guy you
know and these are freestyle so it'd be
like not even writing stuff down just
off the head making some rhyme and I
knew I was good at that because at home
in my own head I used to do that all the
time
take me back you're seeing this stuff
but a lot of people saw it not a lot of
people did something with it so how did
you learn it well enough to act upon it
when we say learn it what do you mean
like learn so I'm I'm imagining the kid
watching the show right now sees your
name on the youtube link he clicks it he
probably wants to have a similar kind of
success what vein I don't know maybe he
wants to be the greatest teacher of all
time maybe he wants to be an investor
maybe he wants to be a rapper yeah and
so what I want to see how much you can
sort of recapture from that period is
how you went about absorbing this
information and then trying it so
learning about distribution is not easy
dude like I had to learn about
distribution from a food perspective
it's not easy yeah it's complicated it's
full of people that like can say yes and
no and you have to figure out how to
work with them and like how to you know
make friends here and know who to say no
to and who to say yes to and who's the
right distributor and when you're
driving to Cleveland who-who are you
taking the the mixtape to who do you
sell it to and if you sell it to this
guy can you also sell it to that guy how
do you set the price like there's so
much to figure out how did you begin
shipping away at that problem I think
you go back to the beginning and you
start with doing what you're passionate
about right look
is there a lot of people that are going
through life right now trying to figure
it out like me I don't know what I want
to be I don't know like I was at that
moment and then so you're just like I'm
gonna take [__] action yeah I'm gonna
figure out what I like to press your own
disks yeah so how'd you figure that one
out okay first I figured out that I
really like remember I played basketball
too that I did every day religiously and
then when rap started becoming a thing
that I actually really liked then I was
just like oh this is my passion that I'm
actually better at actually so I went
down that path right and then now
because my curiosity and my passion for
it I'm gonna be engulfed and everything
it's not work it's like second nature
you know so I don't know everything
you're reading you asking questions
no I'm diving into it I'm doing it um
everything that you know the books teach
you I think a lot of times I have you
sitting back reading so much that you're
not actually doing and to me doing is
the best teacher you know so basically I
don't know everything about selling
mixtapes at the time but I see other
people selling mixtapes in there right
next to me I can talk to him all the
time so I'm asking questions my
curiosity but this thing I'm passionate
about kind of you know got real-world
experience from people that you know
have done it so then I'm watching them
do it and then I go right behind them
and do the thing that they just did and
it actually works right so they just
pressed up some CDs and they drove took
them and drove them all the way to
Cleveland Ohio most people don't want to
do that remember you're going there not
even knowing if you're gonna sell a lot
of them right you get there and you sell
them for what seven dollars a piece
right if you get there and sell you know
a hundred CDs you make seven hundred
dollars but you gotta pay for the gas
you got to pay for all these things your
friends alone with you they want money
to it's not that much so we were knowing
that in advance and saw the person go
and they came back and they went made
seven hundred so I'm thinking like man I
want to drive I'm gonna do it but I
don't want to make seven hundred how can
I not make seven hundred so we came up
with a plan and it was like all right
when we get there we're gonna get a
hotel wait we can't get a hotel because
that's gonna take from our 709 we get
the hotel we're gonna take the phone
books as back in days they had two phone
books and you'd open it had like the the
store section and you would open it out
and every store in the city's there and
we just call them like hey we're in town
we got this mixtape and they'd be like
well who are you you're not really that
you know no and we get all our friends
to call the store and ask for our mixed
so then now they're like oh yeah I want
that mixtape people can call them asking
for that so then we go to the store and
we sell 100 CDs and now that's 700 more
dollars that's $1400 now you know so
it's like doing stuff like that weird
growth hacking things you know we were
finding a way to get you know people to
appreciate what we have but when you can
show it which we architected it
sometimes you know then it started
becoming because we had good music
something that they started distributing
the people and then people started
hearing it and it's just started growing
and growing and growing and we did all
kind of things but all this came from me
watching people like there are other
people that did it like people always
ask me what is my look up to role models
are consumed from everybody like true
chameleon like taking from everybody no
I can't point to one specific person it
was just like alright
that part is good this part is bad and
then I would try and then I would fail a
lot of times but trial and error is
gonna be your best teacher like people I
can't think of any book I can't think of
anything that taught me and now when
people ask me is like I could tell you a
lot but whatever and if you gotta just
do it you got to do it when you get in
then you're gonna see that didn't work
and you got to quickly move to what what
works startup companies work like this
what I love they're in the business of
like trying things they'll throw ten
darts at a table I me had a you know a
dartboard and you know two of them a
stick and the rest of them fail but when
they find it to that stick then they
they start to lean in on those you know
and I think life is like that you know I
feel like the one thing about rap that
it taught me is it taught me you know
having your finger on the pulse of
what's next you know there was this
thing where when I was early everybody
should talk about a rapper a little kid
comes up to you like wow he's a rapper
and they're excited about it then you
kind of grow a little bit and you get to
a phase where it's like he's a rapper
you know and then you go to a phase
where it's like he's a rapper you know I
mean and it's like man when I started
getting to the third phase it was like
people didn't look at a rapper good and
I started to not like that you know when
I was young and I hadn't accomplished
stuff I hadn't grown and you know made
and traveled then people always used to
look at me like I was a superhero and
then you get to a place where it's kind
of like ah I don't know maybe then you
get to a place where it's like uh he's a
rapper that's all he does he's just a
basketball player he shuts
and dribble and then you want to talk to
people that you're greater than that you
can do more so now when I'm explaining
that to people that are still back in
that first phase a lot of times they
don't get it because they haven't seen
that that whole trajectory you know
right and I struggle with that a lot now
you know kind of balance it when you say
trying to balance it would mean are you
still trying to keep a foot in each
world now it seems like you're pretty
hard in the investor phase yeah but I
care though that's what we care about
what every time I'm over here in this
world I'm thinking about that little kid
over there I'm them you know I'm not
doing this to like forget this whole
thing and to go over here like that's
that's not what it's about like it's
hard for me to remove myself in that you
know there's other day I was a would a
venture capitalist and we're walking
down the street in Santa Monica he comes
running up the street he's got like
undershirt like a Hanes white undershirt
and he's got tattoos dreads and I'm
looking at him like oh my goodness is
he's about to ask me like it's demo and
he's like he's breathing he's like you
hold man a man Congrats for buying
Disney no I what
so I'm invested in maker studios was got
acquired by Disney confused about it but
it was just like so I was like wow and
the VC turned to me and he's just like
laughs and he was like man you see that
and any other time man like this kid
woulda came up to you and hand you a
demo and now the fact they're thinking
about tech like you know you got
responsibilities like that's awesome and
like he was right there in a moment
I was just like man I started thinking
about that so I want I really want
people to think about your arc I want
them to think about how hard it would be
for the average person to go from so in
one area you're a celebrity for rapping
but that that would work against you as
you try to step into being VCS not like
people are gonna stand up and clap be
like yeah the rapper's here they're
gonna look you like what are you doing
at a tech conference yeah so you you
have to overcome more than the average
person but you do that and one of the
the most interesting parts of your
journey for me is when what you were
just talking about you begin to realize
okay I see things that they don't and I
can advise them and coming in as an
advisor first to get your feet in the
door and there's that exchange of
information you're starting to meet new
people and you say the information
relationships are the two magic things
one thing I'm always trying to tell
young people I mean [__] I try to tell
people of any age this the key is most
people try to get whatever job they can
get that gives them the most money
mm-hmm
whereas what they should be thinking
about is what job gives me the most
experience and the most relationships
because money only spends once but
knowledge monetizes forever correct so
the fact that people are always trying
to get like that short-term dollar at
the expense of the the long-term
leverage that you get from knowing
something and knowing someone is crazy
to me I'm living proof of that right now
everything that we're talking about is
how it was I was designed to be that way
think about it
people see my name Chamillionaire they
instantly think of money my first song
before the ride and dirty before riding
dirty was a song called in love with my
money me and Paul's big single right and
everybody should think I was in love
with my money but I wasn't really in
love with my money it was really
fighting for something bigger you know
and one thing I don't really talk about
this much but I used to go on the road
and do all these interviews with radio
stations and he said ask me what my name
means what is committing I mean and I
ice and whatnot want to explain all this
deep stuff because I feel like you know
I gotta go into this deep meaning of
Rani's people they're not gonna care so
I should be like I means rich in style I
would always say something like that but
what it really means is I used to be
chameleon that was my name right and I
used to draw comic books like I said I
used to draw all these comic books and I
said all these superheroes and I was
like Batman a Superman and everybody had
a big logo and you know they would come
and save the you know damsel in distress
and there was nothing that represented
me so I drew like black superhero and
the lizard logo that I have was the logo
for the superhero and his name was
chameleon but then me and Paul wall used
to be in a group and he was really good
at relationships I used to see that guy
he used to have the gold teeth and he's
a smile all the time and everybody still
of Paul and would come to the city and I
was just like man I'm not built like
that I don't have that I was just like
anti-social so but one thing I had was I
had the information you know so me and
him together
forced because he had the relationships
are the information and that part's you
know it's time we started growing apart
and then I used to be nervous about him
like the minute he's gone like I lose
the relationships you
so I started working to try to make
myself better with the relationships but
I understood the value of like having
informational relationships cuz success
came from that you know so I'm a
freestyle I mean we're at a store one
time and somebody said hey Paul what's
up and he would always turn around the
fans like high-five them and I like act
like you knew him even though he didn't
know him and I'd be like man this dude's
good a relationship they don't even know
you
they used to be awkward to me people use
my real names like kings it'll be like
how I came and they would you say that
would turn and it'll be somebody I don't
know and I'm looking at him they're
walking up to me they're friends and I'm
just like man what is this you're not
even trying to build a relationship
you're just faking and I used to hate
that so on a freestyle I was like my
real name is Hakeem but don't call me
that you here I'm changing my name from
committing to the Chamillionaire and
that's when I changed my name to
Chamillionaire right so nobody really
knew why but it was chameleon it was my
name I just added a IR e that's about
information and relationships people see
the money part right it was never about
that I knew that I'm gonna be successful
as long as I get that and when I tell
mewhat late get the heck out he was
thinking like that before remember I
used to draw comic books and every time
you draw a superhero they had to have a
meaning they had to have a reason for
being I used to think about that angsty
like man what is this about and I
created this superhero and I put that
logo on the bus everywhere I was going
that lizard logo it's on my album cover
everywhere I was like I'm creating a
superhero and that was the whole thought
but it's just like all this special
power is knowing how to blend in and get
in anywhere and knowing how to consume
all the information in the room and use
it knowing how to build the
relationships and get into another room
that's what I've been doing this whole
time and that's the whole meaning of it
so I feel like the story you're talking
about about how we have to give it at to
younger people absolutely absolutely
when I say it it just sounds crazy
information and relationships oh my how
am I gonna get relationships when I'm
sitting courtside at the games
everybody there they have way more
information or way more relationships
that's why they're there of course a lot
of people have had all kind of
advantages and stuff like that but
that's the thing that separates us if
you can find a way to get all of that
then you can be just as equal even
greater and I'm trying to give that to
people but sometimes it's a long path
you know now on that one certainly
leading by example is pretty
extraordinary I know you've started
several companies
what's your plan there what what kind of
enterprise do you want to create to show
people just how possible it is
it goes back to that thing is just doing
you know like I don't know if I'm gonna
be successful you know but I'll always
believe that the risk is worth it you
know there's some people that go through
the motions and you know they you know
go and figure out what career they're
gonna you know have they go to college
they go get the job that they want
career and they go through those motions
9 to 5 I just feel like you know we only
have so much breath on this earth and so
much time and I'm trying to use as much
of it as possible in the most efficient
way as possible and I feel like
entrepreneurship is the way to do that
you know you get it straight to the
failure quickly tell me about that
efficiency how do you get efficient how
do you what are what's the criteria by
which you will engage with something I
started analyzing it I started being
like like there are a lot of people that
are textures and they text all the time
I don't text like that and people
complain all the time too late man
camera you texting me takes like he
takes you back like two hours later or a
day later or whatever and it's because I
treat email like people treat text and
the reason why is because when people
email me they get straight to it
they got to tell me everything in the
emails like yes or no right but when
it's text it's like yo what's up bro
what's up back and forth and you're just
doing that it's like you know and a pool
is like so immediate it can pull you
away from something doing right then you
know it's like so I started like
analyzing and stuff like you know what
what's gonna make me be more efficient
because what I'm after is so important
to me it's not about you it's not about
making you feel bad it's just about what
I feel is best for me and I started
changing my life I started eating better
I was just to try to make myself better
you know when I wake up in the morning
I'm trying to be as efficient as
possible and trying to if I can
accomplish in a week what somebody can
accomplish in a month I feel good so how
do you do that what sure do right some
routine write stuff down I make a list
of things I want to do and I check it
off I feel bad at the end of the day if
I don't have stuff done you know and I
feel like I surround myself with people
that are all focused on that and because
now I've got that kind of circle what
we're all trying to get it then it's
like stuff doesn't really make it in I
don't say I'm not saying I don't do the
extracurricular stuff I do do that stuff
but some of the little small things like
picking up my phone and like scrolling
Twitter like in the morning like I just
I don't I don't I avoid stuff like that
I still do it but I find the right time
like after today and then today I think
that's super impressive man you have a
really really smart and
same way of looking at the world and
there's one thing that you talk about
that I think really sums up a key
insight that you have that I think has
driven you through the different phases
of your career tell people why you like
the letter C ah man
man so yeah I had to this presentation
where I was like just talking about how
C is you know it's just a powerful
letter because you know the C itself
right it's starts right here and it
curves and then it stops before it makes
a complete circle and complete and
circle both start with C all right but
it's a reminder that there's always a
little bit more to go
right so I just looked at it and again
this goes back to my comic book days why
she's just draw letters and try to
figure out what was what and I just look
at the sea and the sea just curved and
they just stopped I was like man it's
something special but that little bit of
space right there right I deliberately
was like I'm gonna name myself something
with a C alright and then I started
thinking about all the things that I
like you know from confidence to you
know culture to you know creativity to
all the words that start with C and I
was just like man this word C is like a
powerful word and I'm gonna you know
make everything I do a lot of things
attached to this word so combos is one
of the name of my social video app that
I launched and I feel like you know the
C it reminds me of like what's what what
we got to do you know I love that where
can people find out more about you find
you online about combos or any of your
other products you can download combos
it's a social video app for connecting
people through face-to-face
conversations it's available for iOS and
Android and you know this is my venture
into being an entrepreneur and tech you
know we got a lot of great influencers
but a community of people that are
positive and focus on communicating
which is another way that starts with C
right I'm in a productive way you know
like think about social media and how
toxic it is and how much abuse and
trolling and we're trying to like not
eradicate it cuz that's gonna be
impossible but just reduce it and reduce
the power of people that use social
media for negativity you know I'm not
saying everybody has to agree but we're
at a time where now people disagree more
than ever about all kind of things right
and I feel like there's got to be some
kind of way to
discourse with people in a way that's
productive you know so we're trying to
create a platform that encourages that
type of stuff it's not like you know I
open my Twitter feed and some kids like
fu Kobe Bryant lover and then
everybody's retweeting that person and
I'm giving that person power this is a
little bit opposite you know you got to
put your face on it you got to show
yourself and anonymity kind of goes away
so that kind of stops people from doing
some of the things that they do on
social you know and it's like so far I'm
loving this this journey and you know
talking to developers and figuring out
their needs and you know this is really
just about communicating and
understanding you know because I feel
like if you want to have success at
scale you're never gonna do it by
yourself on the path or whatever you
want to do there's people it can be
employees and be camera man it could be
whoever you got to find a way to
communicate with people and incentivize
them to one do something that they're
passionate about and hopefully it aligns
with you and then to stay on a journey
with you and a lot of these things that
I did in music industry when I was doing
with fans it's the same things as
applicable to tech now I'm talking to
product managers designers and I have to
tell them like hey this is what I'm
trying to do if that aligns with you
let's talk and if not then you probably
should go this way and I'll go this way
you know and we have to find people that
have a common interest and then focus on
building something great you know maybe
we'll win maybe we won't you know but
I'm crazy enough to think that I can and
and I regardless I believe something
like this needs to exist we're going
into a world where I don't believe that
anonymity and you know all these private
places of like being somebody that's
toxic and a bot that that's you know
taking a conversation somewhere I think
there's some smart people that are gonna
figure out how to solve all this stuff
you know and I feel like you know I'd
rather be on that journey and if you
know I can be in the founder seat trying
to drive something like that that's
wonderful because if I'm able to be
successful then a lot of people of
diverse backgrounds and having success
in their lives and then it impacts the
community a lineage of people that never
had capital before it never had
ownership before right it means I'm
different but then also on the investing
side bringing people in and giving them
that same opportunity I feel like at the
end of the day this is about creating
seeds that grow into a tree you know
and if I can start planning a bunch of
those seeds now right now it's 50
investments but I'm gonna plant so many
seeds that eventually grow into the tree
those trees will feel a lot of people
and that's impact at scale and that's
why I like your you know everything
we're doing here because I'm
that's with the focus of you know
everything you do is about and you know
normally generally stray away from
interviews because it's like you know
same questions about you know I don't
know stuff that they believe people want
to know but it's like gossip stuff and
I'm just like nah man I'm here on this
moment to where like if I'm not here
I got thing about everything I'm saying
what I want people to take this
information with them you know and I'm
like yeah that that's all I spend my
time on you know and to really because I
think you just basically answered it but
if tasks getting one very pointed way
what's the impact that you want to have
on the world
I tell people that you know for a while
I was like thinking about what my what
my why is like why why am i doing
everything why am I here why am i doing
all this but I say this like I focus on
me me right and what that means is like
first figuring out what I care about and
what I think my value to the world is
was I think everybody should be on a
journey to figure out and then doing
that to the best of your abilities but
to me me M and E stands for motivation
and education those are the two things
that I do everything that I do right now
is about that this interview is all that
everything I say yes to motivation
education it was outside of that I don't
do it and I'm trying to drop as much of
that as possible on this planet because
when you're gone that's all people have
left right and they use those things
that riding dirty that can that be it I
think there's more I think there's a lot
that I can just give out everything that
you've learned your experience things
you've been through and you drop that
off of people you know for your family
for their families family for you know
other people that might have been
inspired by you and then people later
who don't even know your existing but
somehow stumble upon it at some point
Nipsey also had that you know where he
passed and there's a lot of people
didn't appreciate him while he's here
and then they realized the impact of
what he was doing while he was here you
know and I feel like I see moments like
that and it kind of lets me know like
yeah you know I'm on the right path like
I see there a lot of people that are
after this you know and you don't
understand why you know there's a lot of
you know wolf in sheep's clothing
sometimes where the person is like you
can't really be out here trying to motor
with you're not really trying to help
people a lot of people out there but I
always say I challenge you
find the wolf go back and look at all
the things I did and see what where the
wolf was like.he and came out yet you
know so my whole what I want to be
remembered for is really just that you
know that's that's all I'm trying to do
here you know it's not about money or
trying to be a billionaire I one time
did his article and they changed the
title like Chamillionaire wants to be
like a billionaire to try to be catchy
and I was just like man I was so upset I
didn't want to share the article they're
like what like there's a lot of great
gems and I was like man but the headline
is like I want to be a billionaire like
I don't want to put that energy in the
air it's not about money I want to make
it very clear the money will come if you
focus on passion you focus on
information and relationship and I'm
gonna stand on the top of the mountain
and seeing that all day and hopefully it
helps a real impact on people's lives
and I'm gonna feel good about that
I'm not gonna feel good if I go to the
grave as being the only person with the
information and the money and I just had
all this money imma feel good if I'm
able to impact a lot of people and that
don't have access to this information
and a good life or quality of life and
they have one that's awesome that makes
me feel real good it's wicked man well
guys you've seen him he's been around
for a very long time he's somebody that
actually knows how to transition to move
from one thing to another follow the
passion learn get educated relationships
and information can't say any better
than that
and speaking of relationships and
information if you haven't already be
sure to subscribe and until next time my
friends be legendary
take care millionaire my man [__] a
dude that was one what's up impact abyss
as you guys know my mission in life is
to provide the no BS instruction manual
for success and to that end we've
launched our brand-new learning platform
impact theory University our goal with
ITU is to provide you with curriculum
that will help you take your career
business or personal development to the
next level so regardless of your end
goal ITU is designed to provide you with
the universal principles and tactics of
success that will propel you forward so
whether you want to build a fortune 500
company advance quickly up the ranks at
your company become a more effective
parent or partner or simply get unstuck
there are core principles that apply and
that's where impact theory university
comes in but to be clear ITU is not
another podcast or conversate
with an influencer you can get all of
that for free right here on our YouTube
page instead it is structured education
delivered in a compelling format and
paired with social support and
accountability we offer two tracks
business and mindset regardless of which
track you choose you'll gain access to a
library of all of our pre-recorded
classes as well as two hours of live
teaching per month where you'll have the
opportunity to engage with me ask
questions and meet others in the
community every class also comes with an
actionable worksheet designed to help
you take the immediate action that is
required to make any new skill stick and
last but certainly not least as a
student enrolled in ITU you'll get
access to an exclusive online community
of other like-minded individuals who
will help you study the content work
through all of your goals and keep you
accountable at all times itu pricing
starts as low as forty seven dollars a
month for the mindset track and ninety
seven dollars a month for the business
track there's also a 50% discount if you
buy the whole year upfront and
additional discounts if you sign up for
both mindset and business when you
bundle all of the discounts together the
cost drops to roughly 80 cents a day I
think ITU truly is the best content we
have ever made but if you sign up and
don't agree that it's worth say ten
times what you paid just take advantage
of our no questions asked 30-day
money-back guarantee I don't want any of
us to get paid unless we're delivering
disproportionate value so trust of the
refund process will be absolutely
hassle-free and if this sounds like
something that would help you move
forward in your life but you can't
afford it we do have a scholarship
program that you can apply for that
provides free access to those in need
alright everybody if you want to take
advantage of this and make it
dramatically important in your life
sign up today the link is in the
description or you can go directly to
University dot impact Theory dot-com I
look forward to seeing you on the inside
my friends and until then be legendary
take care and I had to be perfect we
supposed to embrace all our
imperfections
and I think if we find and can imagine
the bright side than anything that will
become a reality but you can't think
anything is going to be given to you
other than opportunity